March 31, 2020
Worked through Sections 3 - 5 which primarily walked through the data science PDF. Moving from past to present on a timeline, we went over traditional and big data, when to apply it, why it's needed, techniques involved, where it's commonly found, tools used, and the job titles of those primarily focused on these steps.

Went over KPIs or "key performance indicators" as part of business intelligence techniques. Was first introduced to these at Brava. It's the process of filtering metrics that apply to business goals. This leads to BI reports and dashboards.

In the traditional methods bucket we took a look at linear regression and how observations can be charted and formulas can be created using y = bx. Another traditional methods is logistic regression, which is a binary representation. A third technique is cluster analysis, used when groupings are identifiable within a charted dataset. Finally, time-series data (think hourly, monthly, daily energy usage) illustrates behavior of usage over time.

In machine learning, deep learning is described as both supervised and unsupervised methods. One supervised method use case is fraud detection in financial industries. Think about traveling to a new country, and your credit card getting frozen because it's triggered some alert that the activity is outside the ML supervised model. Letting the credit card company know you are traveling opens up this model to interpret the activity as normal or expected.

As a whole, this course is very theory and video based. The quizzes are not terribly comprehensive. I'm looking forward to actually working through exercises.


March 30, 2020
Worked through Sections 1 and 2 of the course. These sections analysis vs analytics, different types of analytics and how they relate to business and data analytics, and when these different tools come into play when solving problems.o

Strictly speaking, analysis is a reflection on things that have happened, while analytics looks ahead for future projections base on the analysis data. Colloquially, however, "analytics" has become the umbrella term for both.

The separation of business analysis tools was rather interesting. It's broken up by analytics type under the "advanced analytics" umbrella, as well as using a time axis of past, present, and future.

Business Analytics is at the bottom of the stack, focusing primarily on business case studies in the past and qualitative analytics in the future. Then comes Data Science, which encompases preliminary data reporting in the past, and sales forecasting in the future. Data Analytics is largely represented by Data Science, but has a more pure form when looking strictly at data input and output to reach an improved setting.

The final three are Business Intelligence, Machine Learning, and AI. Business Intelligence relies on past and present analytics, with mechanisms like reporting with visuals and creating dashboards. This reminds me of something to prepare for a board meeting. It also overlaps with Machine Learning to create real-time dashboards.

Machine Learning is largely encompased with Data Science, and can be used to help wtih client retention and fraud prevention. Then this is tied in to AI, which primiarly uses Machine Learning to perform more advanced analytics.
